Colonists versus Pirates!
=========================

Colonists versus Pirates is a game that derives from the _Tower Defense_ 
style of games. The premise is to protect the colony on the beach from 
pillaging pirates. Defensive items can be put in the water to try to 
sink pirate ships before they arrive at the coast. These items cost 
gold. If pirates reach the cost, they pillage the colony for gold.

If the colony loses all its gold, it's game over! 

Basic Mechanics
---------------

The ocean is divided into tiles. Defensive items can be purchased and placed
on tiles. Only one item can be placed on a tile at a time. Pirate ships fire 
cannon balls, so defensive items can be destroyed.

Defensive items are purchased by clicking on the item and then clicking on the
tile to build it on. If there is enough gold (as listed in the top-left of the 
game window), the item will be placed.

Items can be sold by clicking the *sell* button in the top-right of the game
window and then clicking on the item to be sold.

The only resource in the game is _gold_. Without gold, the colony will perish.
Placing defensive items also costs gold, so it is very important to balance the
amount spent on defensive structures and the amount reserved in case a pirate 
ship breaks through defenses and pillages the colony down to zero gold.

Ships and defensive structures can be destroyed by attack them until their HP 
falls to zero. 

Gold is replenished automatically at a rate of 1 gold every 2 seconds. When a 
pirate ship is destroyed, the colony receives 10 gold. After each level, the 
colony receives a bonus of 20 times that level amount. 

Structures
--------------------

There is only one type of pirate ship. It has an HP of 100 units.

The first, and most primitive defensive structure is the *regular cannon*. It 
fires cannon balls at ships in its ocean row. It has an initial HP of 50 units.
Each cannon ball fires for 10 units of damage.

The next defensive structure is the *fire cannon*. It shoots fireballs of swift
justice for 20 damage per hit. In addition, if the ship has oil status, the 
ship catches fire and takes 18 damage per second. The fire cannon begins with 
an initial HP of 70 units.

Barrels are used to cause the *oil* status on ships. This makes them vulnerable
to catching fire when a fireball from a fire cannon hits the ship. They are 
invulnerable until hit.

The last defensive structure is the *sandbar*. The sandbar is useful for 
stopping enemy pirate ships until the pirates manage to clear a path through
it with their cannon balls. The sandbar has an initial 70 HP units.

